So now let's talk
about how we can move objects
between different storage classes
so you can transition them,
and this is a diagram of how it's possible.
So as you can see,
you can go from the Standard, for example,
to Standard IA to Intelligent Tiering to One-Zone IA,
and then from One-Zone IA, as you can see,
you can go to Flexible Retrieval or Deep Archive.
And so all the types
of permutations are shown in this graph.
So as a matter of fact, if you know
that your objects are going to be infrequently accessed,
then move them to Standard IA.
And if you know that you're going to archive objects,
move them into the Glacier
of tiers or the Deep Archive tier.
Now, moving these objects can be done manually, of course,
but we can automate this using lifecycle rules.
So these lifecycle rules are made of multiple things.
The first thing is a transition action
to configure the object
to transition to another storage class.
For example, you say move
to Standard IA class after 60 days after creations
or move to Glacier for archiving after six months.
You can also set up expiration actions.
So configure objects to be deleted,
to be expired after some time.
For example, your access log files,
you want to delete them after 365 days.
Or you can, for example,
use an expiration action to delete old versions
of files if you have enabled versioning.
Or we can use this to delete incomplete multi-part uploads
if, for example, the multi-part uploads is more
than two weeks old because, well,
the thing should have been fully uploaded by now.
The rules can also be specified for a certain prefix.
So they can apply to entire buckets
or to a specific path within your buckets.
And you can also specify it for specific object tags.
So if you want to only do a rule
for the department finance, you can.
So here's some scenarios.
For example, you have an application on EC2,
and it creates images, thumbnails
after profile photos are uploaded to Amazon S3.
But these thumbnails, they can be easily recreated
from the original photo
and they only need to be kept for 60 days.
But the source images, they should be able
to be immediately retrieved for these 60 days
and afterwards the user can wait up to six hours.
So how would you design this?
This is what an exam question will ask you.
So the S3 source images can be on the Standard class
with a lifecycle configuration to transition them
to Glacier after 60 days and the thumbnails images,
so this is how you would use a prefix to differentiate
between source and thumbnails, for example.
So the thumbnails can be on One-Zone IA
because well, they're infrequently accessed,
and they can be recreated easily,
and you can have a lifecycle configuration to expire them
or delete them after 60 days.
Another scenario, so a rule
in your company states that you should be able
to recover deleted S3 objects immediately for 30 days,
although this may happen rarely.
After this time, for up to 365 days,
deleted objects should be recoverable within 48 hours.
For this, we can enable S3 versioning in order to keep
and have object versions so that the deleted objects
are in fact hidden by a delete marker
and then can be recovered.
And then you will create a rule to transition
the non-current versions of the objects to Standard IA.
So that means the versions
that are not the top level versions,
and then transition afterwards these non-current versions
to Glacier Deep Archive for archival purposes.
Lastly, how do we determine what's the optimal number
of days to transition an object from one class to another?
Well, you can do this thanks to Amazon S3 Analytics.
So it's going to give you recommendations
for Standard and for Standard IA.
It does not work with One-Zone IA or Glacier.
And so the S3 buckets
will have S3 Analytics run on top of it.
And this will create a CSV report
that will give you some recommendations and some statistics.
The report is going to be updated daily
and then it can take between 24 to 48 hours
to start seeing data analysis coming out of it.
So this is a good first step, this CSV report
to put together lifecycle rules that makes sense
or to improve them.
Okay, so that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.